README.md, before:

# SEO Meta Validator

**Work in progress - alpha release!**

I need a html test suite and I wasn't able to find a good one (without relying on third party services), so I rewrote [npm/structured-data-testing-tool][4] and [npm/web-auto-extractor][5] to a less resource hungry package, that also works in a web browser.

It is basically a rewrite of the [structured-data-testing-tool][1] by Iain Collins and it isn't fully implemented, yet.

## Goals

* [ ] extract meta data from website
  * [x] metatags
    * [ ] grouped by twitter, og, og:image...
  * [x] jsonld
  * [x] microdata
  * [x] rdfa
  * [ ] some more ???
* [ ] validate data
  * [ ] for SEO best practices
  * [ ] valid properties
    * [ ] match schema.org
    * [ ] valid data types
* [ ] multiple usage options
  * [ ] browser based ui
  * [ ] limited ui via bookmarklet
  * [ ] cli
  * [ ] js/node api
* [ ] connect with a (self hosted) nu validator instance

## Usage

### mini ui in browser

Save this repo in `/path/to/xampp/htdocs/seo-meta-validator`, run Apache and open your browser `http://localhost/seo-meta-validator`.

It works for testing websites on localhost, but not with external urls due to CORS.

### browser bookmarklet

Create a browser bookmark and copy the content from `dist/bookmarklet.js` in the location field.

Open a external website. Click on the bookmark and it loads the script `metavalidator.min.js` with a simple overlay to run tests.

It may fail due to CORS.

The built bookmarklet has a hard coded url to `http://localhost/seo-meta-validator/dist/metavalidator.min.js`. Change the url if your host url differs.

### CLI

Not fully implemented yet. Run `node bin/cli.js --url https://example.com` to see a very limited cli output.

## Build

* `npm run build` and `npm run watch` to rebuild js an css files
* `npm run build:js:dev` and `npm run watch:js:dev` to rebuild js files without minifying (for debugging)
* `npm run build:bookmarklet` ...
* see `package.json` for more build scripts

## To do

### meta

* [ ] How to deal with mixed licensed content? I publish everything under MIT, sdtt is ISC licensed and the browserified jmespath is Apache 2.0 licensed.
* [ ] collaboration or new project?
  * collaborate with Iain Collins and merge my rewrite to his tool or
  * create my own project
* [ ] split project into multiple packages/repos, e. g. "test suite" and "meta-extractor"...?

### general/bugs

* [ ] SEO preset
* [ ] validate schemas
* [ ] microdata/rdfa parser schould match spec
* [ ] check for valid url
* [ ] avoid running the same test multiple times (e. g. preset "Default" & "Google" or "SocialMedia" & Twitter)
* [x] entry point with differnt DOMParser for node/cli usage
* [ ] babel, polyfills...
* [ ] metatags should be grouped (e. g. og with multiple og images)
* [ ] performance tests/optimization
* [ ] catch error if url is not parsable
* [ ] self tests
* [ ] single tests should have conditionals (currently only presets have conditionals)
* [ ] presets should have multiple conditionals (currently only one conditional test is possible) - some data has multiple fallbacks, e.g. if no `twitter:title` is present, Twitter will fallback to `og:title`

### mini browser ui

* [ ] Cross-Origin Request Blocked: The Same Origin Policy disallows reading the remote resource

### bookmarklet

* [ ] bookmarklet fails sometimes through Content Security Policy
* [ ] more explicit styles because it shares it's styles with the tested website

### sdtt behaviour

* [ ] cli
* [ ] groups
* [.] multiple schema instances
* [ ] number of tests doesn't match
* [ ] load schemas
* [ ] auto detected tests are disabled

## Copyright and License

Copyright 2020 Raffael Jesche under the MIT license.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.

## Credits and third party resources

* A lot of the code is copied and modified from [structured-data-testing-tool][1], (c) Iain Collins, ISC License.
* The parsers are rewritten variants from [web-auto-extractor][2], (c) Dayan Adeeb, MIT License.
* Some internal js helpers are from [Cockpit CMS (App.js)][3], (c) Artur Heinze, MIT License
* The built script for browser usage contains the browserified [jmespath][6], (c) James Saryerwinnie, [Apache 2.0 License][7]

[1]: https://github.com/glitchdigital/structured-data-testing-tool
[2]: https://github.com/indix/web-auto-extractor
[3]: https://github.com/agentejo/cockpit/
[4]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/structured-data-testing-tool
[5]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/web-auto-extractor
[6]: https://github.com/jmespath/jmespath.js
[7]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jmespath/jmespath.js/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

added schema.org rest api
* to load missing schemas on run time
* built with Cockpit CMS, cockpit-lib-skeleton and schemaOrgApi addon
(work in progress)
* Cockpit CMS must be installed manually with `git clone
https://github.com/agentejo/cockpit.git ui/lib/cockpit`, because I don't
want to load/redistribute the whole thing (>10MB) with this repo
* contains all schemas and properties including pending ones; to
differentiate them, they have an extra key `"pending": true|false`

README.md, after:

# SEO Meta Validator

**Work in progress - alpha release!**

I need a html test suite and I wasn't able to find a good one (without relying on third party services), so I rewrote [npm/structured-data-testing-tool][4] and [npm/web-auto-extractor][5] to a less resource hungry package, that also works in a web browser.

It is basically a rewrite of the [structured-data-testing-tool][1] by Iain Collins and it isn't fully implemented, yet.

## Goals

* [ ] extract meta data from website
  * [x] metatags
    * [ ] grouped by twitter, og, og:image...
  * [x] jsonld
  * [x] microdata
  * [x] rdfa
  * [ ] some more ???
* [ ] validate data
  * [ ] for SEO best practices
  * [ ] valid properties
    * [ ] match schema.org
    * [ ] valid data types
* [ ] multiple usage options
  * [ ] browser based ui
  * [ ] limited ui via bookmarklet
  * [ ] cli
  * [ ] js/node api
* [ ] connect with a (self hosted) nu validator instance

## Usage

### mini ui in browser

Save this repo in `/path/to/xampp/htdocs/seo-meta-validator`, run Apache and open your browser `http://localhost/seo-meta-validator`.

It works for testing websites on localhost, but not with external urls due to CORS.

If you want to use the rest api to load missing schema definitions on runtime, you have to install Cockpit CMS manually. I don't want to redistribute the whole thing (>10MB) with this repo. Navigate in your shell to `/path/to/seo-meta-validator` and clone Cockpit with

`git clone https://github.com/agentejo/cockpit.git ui/lib/cockpit`

or download [Cockpit CMS][3] and unzip it into `/path/to/seo-meta-validator/ui/lib/cockpit`.

### browser bookmarklet

Create a browser bookmark and copy the content from `dist/bookmarklet.js` in the location field.

Open a external website. Click on the bookmark and it loads the script `metavalidator.min.js` with a simple overlay to run tests.

It may fail due to CORS.

The built bookmarklet has a hard coded url to `http://localhost/seo-meta-validator/dist/metavalidator.min.js`. Change the url if your host url differs.

### CLI

Not fully implemented yet. Run `node bin/cli.js --url https://example.com` to see a very limited cli output.

## Build

* `npm run build` and `npm run watch` to rebuild js an css files
* `npm run build:js:dev` and `npm run watch:js:dev` to rebuild js files without minifying (for debugging)
* `npm run build:bookmarklet` ...
* see `package.json` for more build scripts

## To do

### meta

* [ ] How to deal with mixed licensed content? I publish everything under MIT, sdtt is ISC licensed and the browserified jmespath is Apache 2.0 licensed.
* [ ] collaboration or new project?
  * collaborate with Iain Collins and merge my rewrite to his tool or
  * create my own project
* [ ] split project into multiple packages/repos, e. g. "test suite" and "meta-extractor"...?

### general/bugs

* [ ] SEO preset
* [ ] validate schemas
* [ ] microdata/rdfa parser schould match spec
* [ ] check for valid url
* [ ] avoid running the same test multiple times (e. g. preset "Default" & "Google" or "SocialMedia" & Twitter)
* [x] entry point with differnt DOMParser for node/cli usage
* [ ] babel, polyfills...
* [ ] metatags should be grouped (e. g. og with multiple og images)
* [ ] performance tests/optimization
* [ ] catch error if url is not parsable
* [ ] self tests
* [ ] single tests should have conditionals (currently only presets have conditionals)
* [ ] presets should have multiple conditionals (currently only one conditional test is possible) - some data has multiple fallbacks, e.g. if no `twitter:title` is present, Twitter will fallback to `og:title`

### mini browser ui

* [ ] Cross-Origin Request Blocked: The Same Origin Policy disallows reading the remote resource

### bookmarklet

* [ ] bookmarklet fails sometimes through Content Security Policy
* [ ] more explicit styles because it shares it's styles with the tested website

### sdtt behaviour

* [ ] cli
* [ ] groups
* [.] multiple schema instances
* [ ] number of tests doesn't match
* [ ] load schemas
* [ ] auto detected tests are disabled

## Copyright and License

Copyright 2020 Raffael Jesche under the MIT license.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.

## Credits and third party resources

* A lot of the code is copied and modified from [structured-data-testing-tool][1], (c) Iain Collins, ISC License.
* The parsers are rewritten variants from [web-auto-extractor][2], (c) Dayan Adeeb, MIT License.
* Some internal js helpers are from [Cockpit CMS (App.js)][3], (c) Artur Heinze, MIT License
* The built script for browser usage contains the browserified [jmespath][6], (c) James Saryerwinnie, [Apache 2.0 License][7]

[1]: https://github.com/glitchdigital/structured-data-testing-tool
[2]: https://github.com/indix/web-auto-extractor
[3]: https://github.com/agentejo/cockpit/
[4]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/structured-data-testing-tool
[5]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/web-auto-extractor
[6]: https://github.com/jmespath/jmespath.js
[7]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jmespath/jmespath.js/master/LICENSE
